Guile-GNOME HACKING
Copyright (C) 2004,2006,2009,2010,2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
See the end for copying conditions of this file.
Last updated 7 December 2011.


So, you want to hack Guile-GNOME?
=================================

Ah, good. Join the mailing list, guile-gtk-devel@gnu.org, and fire up
your emacs.


We use Git
==========

The canonical source for Guile-GNOME is our git archive, which can be
retrieved as:

   $ git clone git://git.sv.gnu.org/guile-gnome.git

Note that when building from Git, you'll need to run autogen.sh to
create "configure" and the rest of the build system.


We are wildebeests
==================

Guile-GNOME is part of the GNU project. As such, it is very important to
us to keep our software Free. From perspective of you, the potential
contributor, this entails a number of things:

  * Give a complete change log entry for every change, in the git commit
    message.

  * If your change is visible to a user of the package, update the
    appropriate NEWS file.

  * In order to defend the freedom of users, the Free Software
    Foundation needs to hold the copyright on Guile-GNOME. If you have
    not signed a copyright assignment form for Guile-GNOME, you will
    need to do so. Please contact me at wingo@pobox.com for more
    information.

  * Each file should have a standard GPL copyright header. If you change
    a file, be sure it has a header, and that the copyright years are up
    to date. Don't hyphenate a year range; e.g., say 2004,2005 rather
    than 2004-5.


Adding new bindings
===================

Guile-GNOME is in a strange state right now, as GNOME itself heads
towards 3.0, and GObject Introspection seems to be the way to make
libraries. But still we have good bindings here, so it seems useful to
document existing practice, which is basically to create a new bindings
module, and check it out under this directory. You can add an
appropriate entry to PACKAGES, if you like.

Actually creating the module is a bit of work, but we do have a template
that can help. Check out the "template" branch from Guile-GNOME git,
then run the "templatize" script that is included in that module.

Also, for historical interest, see Neil Jerram's mail to the Guile-GNOME
list entitled "How to customize a guile-gnome bzr distribution". A copy
is archived here:

  http://article.gmane.org/gmane.lisp.guile.gtk/562

If you want to experiment with GObject-Introspection, see Zeeshan Ali's
related project, guile-gir.


Copying this file
=================

Copyright (C) 2006,2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.
