
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function gst-parse-error-quark  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
Get the error quark used by the parsing subsystem.

@table @var
@item ret
the quark of the parse errors.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-parse-launch  (pipeline_description@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gst-element>})
Create a new pipeline based on command line syntax. Please note that you might
get a return value that is not @samp{@code{#f}} even though the @var{error} is
set. In this case there was a recoverable parsing error and you can try to play
the pipeline.

@table @var
@item pipeline-description
the command line describing the pipeline

@item error
the error message in case of an erroneous pipeline.

@item ret
a new element on success, @samp{@code{#f}} on failure. If more than one toplevel
element is specified by the @var{pipeline-description}, all elements are put
into a @code{<gst-pipeline>}, which than is returned.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-parse-bin-from-description  (bin_description@tie{}@code{mchars}) (ghost_unconnected_pads@tie{}@code{bool}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gst-element>})
This is a convenience wrapper around @code{gst-parse-launch} to create a
@code{<gst-bin>} from a gst-launch-style pipeline description. See
@code{gst-parse-launch} and the gst-launch man page for details about the
syntax. Ghost pads on the bin for unconnected source or sink pads within the bin
can automatically be created (but only a maximum of one ghost pad for each
direction will be created; if you expect multiple unconnected source pads or
multiple unconnected sink pads and want them all ghosted, you will have to
create the ghost pads yourself).

@table @var
@item bin-description
command line describing the bin

@item ghost-unconnected-pads
whether to automatically create ghost pads for unconnected source or sink pads
within the bin

@item err
where to store the error message in case of an error, or NULL

@item ret
a newly-created bin, or NULL if an error occurred.

@end table

Since 0.10.3

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
