
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function gst-type-find-peek  (self@tie{}@code{<gst-type-find*>}) (offset@tie{}@code{int64}) (size@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<guint8*>})
Returns the @var{size} bytes of the stream to identify beginning at offset. If
offset is a positive number, the offset is relative to the beginning of the
stream, if offset is a negative number the offset is relative to the end of the
stream. The returned memory is valid until the typefinding function returns and
must not be freed.

@table @var
@item find
The @code{<gst-type-find>} object the function was called with

@item offset
The offset

@item size
The number of bytes to return

@item ret
the requested data, or NULL if that data is not available.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-type-find-suggest  (self@tie{}@code{<gst-type-find*>}) (probability@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (caps@tie{}@code{<gst-caps>})
If a @code{<gst-type-find-function>} calls this function it suggests the caps
with the given probability. A @code{<gst-type-find-function>} may supply
different suggestions in one call. It is up to the caller of the
@code{<gst-type-find-function>} to interpret these values.

@table @var
@item find
The @code{<gst-type-find>} object the function was called with

@item probability
The probability in percent that the suggestion is right

@item caps
The fixed @code{<gst-caps>} to suggest

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-type-find-get-length  (self@tie{}@code{<gst-type-find*>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int64})
Get the length of the data stream.

@table @var
@item find
The @code{<gst-type-find>} the function was called with

@item ret
The length of the data stream, or 0 if it is not available.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-type-find-register  (plugin@tie{}@code{<gst-plugin>}) (name@tie{}@code{mchars}) (rank@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (func@tie{}@code{<gst-type-find-function>}) (possible_caps@tie{}@code{<gst-caps>}) (data@tie{}@code{<gpointer>}) (data_notify@tie{}@code{<g-destroy-notify>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool}) (extensions@tie{}@code{mchars})
Registers a new typefind function to be used for typefinding. After registering
this function will be available for typefinding. This function is typically
called during an element's plugin initialization.

@table @var
@item plugin
A @code{<gst-plugin>}.

@item name
The name for registering

@item rank
The rank (or importance) of this typefind function

@item func
The @code{<gst-type-find-function>} to use

@item extensions
Optional extensions that could belong to this type

@item possible-caps
Optionally the caps that could be returned when typefinding succeeds

@item data
Optional user data. This user data must be available until the plugin is
unloaded.

@item data-notify
a @code{<g-destroy-notify>} that will be called on @var{data} when the plugin is
unloaded.

@item ret
TRUE on success, FALSE otherwise

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
