
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function gst-uri-protocol-is-valid  (protocol@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Tests if the given string is a valid protocol identifier. Protocols must consist
of alphanumeric characters and not start with a number.

@table @var
@item protocol
A string

@item ret
TRUE if the string is a valid protocol identifier, FALSE otherwise.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-uri-is-valid  (uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Tests if the given string is a valid URI identifier. URIs start with a valid
protocol followed by "://" and maybe a string identifying the location.

@table @var
@item uri
A URI string

@item ret
TRUE if the string is a valid URI

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-uri-has-protocol  (uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) (protocol@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Checks if the protocol of a given valid URI matches @var{protocol}.

@table @var
@item uri
an URI string

@item protocol
a protocol string (e.g. "http")

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the protocol matches.

@end table

Since 0.10.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-uri-get-protocol  (uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Extracts the protocol out of a given valid URI. The returned string must be
freed using @code{g-free}.

@table @var
@item uri
A URI string

@item ret
The protocol for this URI.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-uri-get-location  (uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Extracts the location out of a given valid URI, ie. the protocol and "://" are
stripped from the URI, which means that the location returned includes the
hostname if one is specified. The returned string must be freed using
@code{g-free}.

@table @var
@item uri
A URI string

@item ret
The location for this URI. Returns NULL if the URI isn't valid. If the URI does
not contain a location, an empty string is returned.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-uri-construct  (protocol@tie{}@code{mchars}) (location@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Constructs a URI for a given valid protocol and location.

@table @var
@item protocol
Protocol for URI

@item location
Location for URI

@item ret
a new string for this URI. Returns NULL if the given URI protocol is not valid,
or the given location is NULL.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-element-make-from-uri  (type@tie{}@code{<gst-uri-type>}) (uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) (elementname@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gst-element>})
Creates an element for handling the given URI.

@table @var
@item type
Whether to create a source or a sink

@item uri
URI to create an element for

@item elementname
Name of created element, can be NULL.

@item ret
a new element or NULL if none could be created

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-uri-handler-get-uri-type  (self@tie{}@code{<gst-uri-handler*>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
Gets the type of the given URI handler

Returns: the @code{<gst-uri-type>} of the URI handler.

@table @var
@item handler
A @code{<gst-uri-handler>}.

@item ret
@code{<gst-uri-unknown>} if the @var{handler} isn't implemented correctly.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-uri-handler-get-protocols  (self@tie{}@code{<gst-uri-handler*>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gchar**>})
Gets the list of protocols supported by @var{handler}. This list may not be
modified.

Returns: the supported protocols.

@table @var
@item handler
A @code{<gst-uri-handler>}.

@item ret
NULL if the @var{handler} isn't implemented properly, or the @var{handler}
doesn't support any protocols.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-uri-handler-get-uri  (self@tie{}@code{<gst-uri-handler*>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Gets the currently handled URI.

Returns: the URI currently handled by the @var{handler}.

@table @var
@item handler
A @code{<gst-uri-handler>}

@item ret
NULL if there are no URI currently handled. The returned string must not be
modified or freed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-uri-handler-set-uri  (self@tie{}@code{<gst-uri-handler*>}) (uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Tries to set the URI of the given handler.

@table @var
@item handler
A @code{<gst-uri-handler>}

@item uri
URI to set

@item ret
TRUE if the URI was set successfully, else FALSE.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gst-uri-handler-new-uri  (self@tie{}@code{<gst-uri-handler*>}) (uri@tie{}@code{mchars})
Emits the new-uri signal for a given handler, when that handler has a new URI.
This function should only be called by URI handlers themselves.

@table @var
@item handler
A @code{<gst-uri-handler>}

@item uri
new URI or NULL if it was unset

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
