
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <clutter-media>
Derives from @code{<ginterface>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item buffer-percent
The percentage the current stream buffer is filled.

@item volume
The audio volume.

@item position
The position in the current stream in seconds.

@item can-seek
TRUE if the current stream is seekable.

@item uri
The loaded URI.

@item duration
The duration of the current stream in seconds.

@item playing
TRUE if playing.

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <clutter-media> eos 
The ::eos signal is emitted each time the media stream ends.

Since 0.2

@end defop

@defop Signal <clutter-media> error  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gpointer>})
The ::error signal is emitted each time an error occurred.

Since 0.2

@end defop

@deffn Function clutter-media-set-uri  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) (uri@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-uri
Sets the URI of @var{media} to @var{uri}.

@table @var
@item media
@code{<clutter-media>} object

@item uri
URI

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-media-get-uri  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-uri
Retrieves the URI from @var{media}.

@table @var
@item media
A @code{<clutter-media>} object

@item ret
The URI as a string.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-media-set-playing  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) (playing@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-playing
Starts or stops @var{media} playing.

@table @var
@item media
A @code{<clutter-media>} object

@item playing
TRUE to start playing, FALSE to stop.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-media-get-playing  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-playing
Retrieves the playing status of @var{media}.

@table @var
@item media
A @code{<clutter-media>} object

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if playing, @samp{@code{#f}} if stopped.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-media-set-position  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) (position@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-position
Sets the playback position of @var{media} to @var{position}.

@table @var
@item media
A @code{<clutter-media>} object

@item position
The desired position.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-media-get-position  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-position
Retrieves the position of @var{media}.

@table @var
@item media
A @code{<clutter-media>} object

@item ret
The playback position.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-media-set-volume  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) (volume@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method set-volume
Sets the playback volume of @var{media} to @var{volume}.

@table @var
@item media
A @code{<clutter-media>} object

@item volume
The volume as a double between 0.0 and 1.0

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-media-get-volume  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method get-volume
Retrieves the playback volume of @var{media}.

@table @var
@item media
A @code{<clutter-media>} object

@item ret
The playback volume between 0.0 and 1.0

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-media-get-can-seek  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-can-seek
Retrieves whether @var{media} is seekable or not.

@table @var
@item media
A @code{<clutter-media>} object

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if @var{media} can seek, @samp{@code{#f}} otherwise.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-media-get-buffer-percent  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-buffer-percent
Retrieves the amount of the stream that is buffered.

@table @var
@item media
A @code{<clutter-media>} object

@item ret
percentage value

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-media-get-duration  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-duration
Retrieves the duration of the media stream that @var{media} represents.

@table @var
@item media
A @code{<clutter-media>} object

@item ret
The length of the media stream.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-media-set-filename  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-media>}) (filename@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-filename
Sets the filename of the media source.

@table @var
@item media
A @code{<clutter-media>} object

@item filename
A filename to media file.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
