
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function clutter-get-default-backend  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<clutter-backend>})
FIXME

@table @var
@item ret
the default backend. You should not ref or unref the returned object.
Applications should not rarely need to use this.

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-backend-get-resolution  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-backend>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method get-resolution
Gets the resolution for font handling on the screen; see
@code{clutter-backend-set-resolution} for full details.

@table @var
@item backend
a @code{<clutter-backend>}

@item ret
the current resolution, or -1 if no resolution has been set.

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-backend-set-resolution  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-backend>}) (dpi@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method set-resolution
Sets the resolution for font handling on the screen. This is a scale factor
between points specified in a @code{<pango-font-description>} and cairo units.
The default value is 96, meaning that a 10 point font will be 13 units high. (10
* 96. / 72. = 13.3).

Applications should never need to call this function.

@table @var
@item backend
a @code{<clutter-backend>}

@item dpi
the resolution in "dots per inch" (Physical inches aren't actually involved; the
terminology is conventional).

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-backend-set-font-options  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-backend>}) (options@tie{}@code{cairo-font-options-t})
@deffnx Method set-font-options
Sets the new font options for @var{backend}. If @var{options} is
@samp{@code{#f}}, the first following call to
@code{clutter-backend-get-font-options} will return the default font options for
@var{backend}.

This function is intended for actors creating a Pango layout using the
PangoCairo API.

@table @var
@item backend
a @code{<clutter-backend>}

@item options
Cairo font options for the backend, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

Since 0.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-backend-get-font-options  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-backend>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{cairo-font-options-t})
@deffnx Method get-font-options
Retrieves the font options for @var{backend}.

@table @var
@item backend
a @code{<clutter-backend>}

@item ret
the font options of the @code{<clutter-backend>}

@end table

Since 0.8

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
