\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename guile-gnome-clutter.info
@settitle Guile-Clutter
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi

@copying 
This manual is for @code{(gnome clutter)} (version @value{VERSION}, updated
@value{UPDATED})

Copyright 2008 OpenedHand LTD

@quotation 
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. You
may obtain a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License from the Free
Software Foundation by visiting their Web site or by writing to:

@quotation
The Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA
@end quotation
@end quotation

@end copying

@dircategory The Algorithmic Language Scheme
@direntry 
* Guile-Clutter: (guile-gnome-clutter.info).  A fast graphical canvas toolkit.
@end direntry

@titlepage 
@title Guile-GNOME: Clutter
@subtitle version @value{VERSION}, updated @value{UPDATED}
@author Matthew Allum and OpenedHand LTD
@page 
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying 
@end titlepage

@ifnottex 
@node Top
@top Guile-Clutter

@insertcopying 
@menu
* Overview::               About Clutter and its Guile bindings.

* ClutterActor:: Base abstract class for all visual stage actors.
* ClutterAlpha:: A class for calculating an alpha value as a function of time.
* ClutterBackend:: Backend abstraction
* ClutterBehaviourBspline:: A behaviour interpolating position along a B-Spline
* ClutterBehaviourDepth:: A behaviour controlling the Z position
* ClutterBehaviourEllipse:: A behaviour interpolating position along an ellipse
* ClutterBehaviourOpacity:: Behaviour controlling the opacity
* ClutterBehaviourPath:: A behaviour interpolating position along a path
* ClutterBehaviourRotate:: A behaviour controlling rotation
* ClutterBehaviourScale:: A behaviour controlling scale
* ClutterBehaviour:: Class for providing behaviours to actors
* ClutterChildMeta:: Wrapper for actors inside a container
* ClutterCloneTexture:: Actor for cloning existing textures in an efficient way.
* Colors:: Color management and manipulation.
* ClutterContainer:: An interface for implementing container actors
* Clutter Effects:: Utility Class for basic visual effects
* ClutterEntry:: A single line text entry actor
* Events:: User and window system events
* GL Features:: Query GL features at runtime
* Fixed Point Support:: Fixed Point API
* ClutterGroup:: Actor class containing multiple children. actors.
* ClutterLabel:: Actor for displaying text
* ClutterListModel:: List model implementation
* General:: Various 'global' clutter functions.
* ClutterMedia:: An interface for controlling playback of media data.
* ClutterModelIter:: Iterates through a model
* ClutterModel:: A generic model implementation
* ClutterRectangle:: An actor that displays a simple rectangle.
* ClutterScore:: Controller for multiple timelines
* ClutterScriptable:: Override the UI definition parsing
* ClutterScript:: Loads a scene from UI definition data
* ClutterShader:: Programmable pipeline abstraction
* ClutterStage:: Top level visual element to which actors are placed.
* ClutterTexture:: An actor for displaying and manipulating images.
* ClutterTimeline:: A class for time-based events
* Unit conversion:: A logical distance unit.
* Utilities:: Misc utility functions.
* Versioning Macros:: Versioning utility macros


* Undocumented::           Undocumented functions.

* Type Index::
* Function Index::
@end menu

@end ifnottex

@iftex 
@shortcontents 
@end iftex

@include overview.texi

@include section-clutter-actor.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-alpha.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-backend.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-behaviour-bspline.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-behaviour-depth.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-behaviour-ellipse.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-behaviour-opacity.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-behaviour-path.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-behaviour-rotate.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-behaviour-scale.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-behaviour.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-child-meta.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-clone-texture.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-color.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-container.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-effect.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-entry.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-event.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-feature.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-fixed.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-group.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-label.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-list-model.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-main.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-media.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-model-iter.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-model.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-rectangle.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-score.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-scriptable.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-script.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-shader.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-stage.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-texture.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-timeline.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-units.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-util.xml.texi
@include section-clutter-version.xml.texi

@include undocumented.texi

@node Type Index
@unnumbered Type Index
@printindex tp
@node Function Index
@unnumbered Function Index
@printindex fn
@bye
