
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-ellipse-new  (alpha@tie{}@code{<clutter-alpha>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int}) (width@tie{}@code{int}) (height@tie{}@code{int}) (direction@tie{}@code{<clutter-rotate-direction>}) (start@tie{}@code{double}) (end@tie{}@code{double}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour>})
@samp{clutter_behaviour_ellipse_new} is deprecated and should not be
used in newly-written code.

Creates a behaviour that drives actors along an elliptical path with
given center, width and height; the movement starts at @var{start}
degrees (with 0 corresponding to 12 o'clock) and ends at @var{end}
degrees. Angles greated than 360 degrees get clamped to the canonical
interval <0, 360); if @var{start} is equal to @var{end}, the behaviour
will rotate by exacly 360 degrees.

If @var{alpha} is not @samp{@code{#f}}, the @code{<clutter-behaviour>}
will take ownership of the @code{<clutter-alpha>} instance. In the case
when @var{alpha} is @samp{@code{#f}}, it can be set later with
@code{clutter-behaviour-set-alpha}.

@table @var
@item alpha
a @code{<clutter-alpha>} instance, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@item x
x coordinace of the center

@item y
y coordiance of the center

@item width
width of the ellipse

@item height
height of the ellipse

@item direction
@code{<clutter-rotate-direction>} of rotation

@item start
angle in degrees at which movement starts, between 0 and 360

@item end
angle in degrees at which movement ends, between 0 and 360

@item ret
the newly created @code{<clutter-behaviour-ellipse>}

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-ellipse-set-width  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour-ellipse>}) (width@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-width
@samp{clutter_behaviour_ellipse_set_width} is deprecated and should not
be used in newly-written code.

Sets the width of the elliptical path.

@table @var
@item self
a @code{<clutter-behaviour-ellipse>}

@item width
width of the ellipse

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-ellipse-get-width  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour-ellipse>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-width
@samp{clutter_behaviour_ellipse_get_width} is deprecated and should not
be used in newly-written code.

Gets the width of the elliptical path.

@table @var
@item self
a @code{<clutter-behaviour-ellipse>}

@item ret
the width of the path

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-ellipse-set-tilt  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour-ellipse>}) (angle_tilt_x@tie{}@code{double}) (angle_tilt_y@tie{}@code{double}) (angle_tilt_z@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method set-tilt
@samp{clutter_behaviour_ellipse_set_tilt} is deprecated and should not
be used in newly-written code.

Sets the angles at which the ellipse should be tilted around it's
center.

@table @var
@item self
a @code{<clutter-behaviour-ellipse>}

@item angle-tilt-x
tilt of the elipse around the center in X axis in degrees.

@item angle-tilt-y
tilt of the elipse around the center in Y axis in degrees.

@item angle-tilt-z
tilt of the elipse around the center in Z axis in degrees.

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-ellipse-get-tilt  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour-ellipse>}) @result{}@tie{} (angle_tilt_x@tie{}@code{double}) (angle_tilt_y@tie{}@code{double}) (angle_tilt_z@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method get-tilt
@samp{clutter_behaviour_ellipse_get_tilt} is deprecated and should not
be used in newly-written code.

Gets the tilt of the ellipse around the center in Y axis.

@table @var
@item self
a @code{<clutter-behaviour-ellipse>}

@item angle-tilt-x
return location for tilt angle on the X axis, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@item angle-tilt-y
return location for tilt angle on the Y axis, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@item angle-tilt-z
return location for tilt angle on the Z axis, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
