
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function clutter-cairo-texture-new  (width@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (height@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<clutter-actor>})
Creates a new @code{<clutter-cairo-texture>} actor, with a surface of
@var{width} by @var{height} pixels.

@table @var
@item width
the width of the surface

@item height
the height of the surface

@item ret
the newly created @code{<clutter-cairo-texture>} actor

@end table

Since 1.0

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-cairo-texture-create  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-cairo-texture>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{cairo-t})
@deffnx Method create
Creates a new Cairo context for the @var{cairo} texture. It is similar
to using @code{clutter-cairo-texture-create-region} with @var{x-offset}
and @var{y-offset} of 0, @var{width} equal to the @var{cairo} texture
surface width and @var{height} equal to the @var{cairo} texture surface
height.

@c (warning)

Do not call this function within the paint virtual function or from a
callback to the @code{<"paint">} signal.

@table @var
@item self
a @code{<clutter-cairo-texture>}

@item ret
a newly created Cairo context. Use @code{cairo-destroy} to upload the
contents of the context when done drawing

@end table

Since 1.0

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-cairo-texture-create-region  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-cairo-texture>}) (x_offset@tie{}@code{int}) (y_offset@tie{}@code{int}) (width@tie{}@code{int}) (height@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{cairo-t})
@deffnx Method create-region
Creates a new Cairo context that will updat the region defined by
@var{x-offset}, @var{y-offset}, @var{width} and @var{height}.

@c (warning)

Do not call this function within the paint virtual function or from a
callback to the @code{<"paint">} signal.

@table @var
@item self
a @code{<clutter-cairo-texture>}

@item x-offset
offset of the region on the X axis

@item y-offset
offset of the region on the Y axis

@item width
width of the region, or -1 for the full surface width

@item height
height of the region, or -1 for the full surface height

@item ret
a newly created Cairo context. Use @code{cairo-destroy} to upload the
contents of the context when done drawing

@end table

Since 1.0

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-cairo-texture-clear  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-cairo-texture>})
@deffnx Method clear
Clears @var{self}'s internal drawing surface, so that the next upload
will replace the previous contents of the @code{<clutter-cairo-texture>}
rather than adding to it.

@table @var
@item self
a @code{<clutter-cairo-texture>}

@end table

Since 1.0

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-cairo-set-source-color  (cr@tie{}@code{cairo-t}) (color@tie{}@code{<clutter-color>})
Utility function for setting the source color of @var{cr} using a
@code{<clutter-color>}.

@table @var
@item cr
a Cairo context

@item color
a @code{<clutter-color>}

@end table

Since 1.0

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
