
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-rotate-new  (alpha@tie{}@code{<clutter-alpha>}) (axis@tie{}@code{<clutter-rotate-axis>}) (direction@tie{}@code{<clutter-rotate-direction>}) (angle_start@tie{}@code{double}) (angle_end@tie{}@code{double}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour>})
@samp{clutter_behaviour_rotate_new} is deprecated and should not be used
in newly-written code.

Creates a new @code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}. This behaviour will
rotate actors bound to it on @var{axis}, following @var{direction},
between @var{angle-start} and @var{angle-end}. Angles >= 360 degrees
will be clamped to the canonical interval <0, 360), if angle_start ==
angle_end, the behaviour will carry out a single rotation of 360
degrees.

If @var{alpha} is not @samp{@code{#f}}, the @code{<clutter-behaviour>}
will take ownership of the @code{<clutter-alpha>} instance. In the case
when @var{alpha} is @samp{@code{#f}}, it can be set later with
@code{clutter-behaviour-set-alpha}.

@table @var
@item alpha
a @code{<clutter-alpha>} instance, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@item axis
the rotation axis

@item direction
the rotation direction

@item angle-start
the starting angle in degrees, between 0 and 360.

@item angle-end
the final angle in degrees, between 0 and 360.

@item ret
the newly created @code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}.

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-rotate-set-axis  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}) (axis@tie{}@code{<clutter-rotate-axis>})
@deffnx Method set-axis
@samp{clutter_behaviour_rotate_set_axis} is deprecated and should not be
used in newly-written code.

Sets the axis used by the rotate behaviour.

@table @var
@item rotate
a @code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}

@item axis
a @code{<clutter-rotate-axis>}

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-rotate-get-axis  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<clutter-rotate-axis>})
@deffnx Method get-axis
@samp{clutter_behaviour_rotate_get_axis} is deprecated and should not be
used in newly-written code.

Retrieves the @code{<clutter-rotate-axis>} used by the rotate behaviour.

@table @var
@item rotate
a @code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}

@item ret
the rotation axis

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-rotate-set-bounds  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}) (angle_start@tie{}@code{double}) (angle_end@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method set-bounds
@samp{clutter_behaviour_rotate_set_bounds} is deprecated and should not
be used in newly-written code.

Sets the initial and final angles of a rotation behaviour; angles >= 360
degrees get clamped to the canonical interval <0, 360).

@table @var
@item rotate
a @code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}

@item angle-start
initial angle in degrees, between 0 and 360.

@item angle-end
final angle in degrees, between 0 and 360.

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-rotate-get-bounds  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}) @result{}@tie{} (angle_start@tie{}@code{double}) (angle_end@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method get-bounds
@samp{clutter_behaviour_rotate_get_bounds} is deprecated and should not
be used in newly-written code.

Retrieves the rotation boundaries of the rotate behaviour.

@table @var
@item rotate
a @code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}

@item angle-start
return value for the initial angle.

@item angle-end
return value for the final angle.

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-rotate-set-center  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int}) (z@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-center
@samp{clutter_behaviour_rotate_set_center} is deprecated and should not
be used in newly-written code.

Sets the center of rotation. The coordinates are relative to the plane
normal to the rotation axis set with
@code{clutter-behaviour-rotate-set-axis}.

@table @var
@item rotate
a @code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}

@item x
X axis center of rotation

@item y
Y axis center of rotation

@item z
Z axis center of rotation

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-behaviour-rotate-get-center  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}) @result{}@tie{} (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int}) (z@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-center
@samp{clutter_behaviour_rotate_get_center} is deprecated and should not
be used in newly-written code.

Retrieves the center of rotation set using
@code{clutter-behaviour-rotate-set-center}.

@table @var
@item rotate
a @code{<clutter-behaviour-rotate>}

@item x
return location for the X center of rotation.

@item y
return location for the Y center of rotation.

@item z
return location for the Z center of rotation.

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
