
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function clutter-get-default-backend  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<clutter-backend>})
Retrieves the default @code{<clutter-backend>} used by Clutter. The
@code{<clutter-backend>} holds backend-specific configuration options.

@table @var
@item ret
the default backend. You should not ref or unref the returned object.
Applications should rarely need to use this.

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-backend-set-resolution  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-backend>}) (dpi@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method set-resolution
Sets the resolution for font handling on the screen. This is a scale
factor between points specified in a @code{<pango-font-description>} and
cairo units. The default value is 96, meaning that a 10 point font will
be 13 units high. (10 * 96. / 72. = 13.3).

Applications should never need to call this function.

@table @var
@item backend
a @code{<clutter-backend>}

@item dpi
the resolution in "dots per inch" (Physical inches aren't actually
involved; the terminology is conventional).

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-backend-get-resolution  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-backend>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method get-resolution
Gets the resolution for font handling on the screen; see
@code{clutter-backend-set-resolution} for full details.

@table @var
@item backend
a @code{<clutter-backend>}

@item ret
the current resolution, or -1 if no resolution has been set.

@end table

Since 0.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-backend-set-font-options  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-backend>}) (options@tie{}@code{cairo-font-options-t})
@deffnx Method set-font-options
Sets the new font options for @var{backend}. The
@code{<clutter-backend>} will copy the @code{<cairo-font-options-t>}.

If @var{options} is @samp{@code{#f}}, the first following call to
@code{clutter-backend-get-font-options} will return the default font
options for @var{backend}.

This function is intended for actors creating a Pango layout using the
PangoCairo API.

@table @var
@item backend
a @code{<clutter-backend>}

@item options
Cairo font options for the backend, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

Since 0.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-backend-set-font-name  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-backend>}) (font_name@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-font-name
Sets the default font to be used by Clutter. The @var{font-name} string
must either be @samp{@code{#f}}, which means that the font name from the
default @code{<clutter-backend>} will be used; or be something that can
be parsed by the @code{pango-font-description-from-string} function.

@table @var
@item backend
a @code{<clutter-backend>}

@item font-name
the name of the font

@end table

Since 1.0

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-backend-get-font-name  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-backend>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-font-name
Retrieves the default font name as set by
@code{clutter-backend-set-font-name}.

@table @var
@item backend
a @code{<clutter-backend>}

@item ret
the font name for the backend. The returned string is owned by the
@code{<clutter-backend>} and should never be modified or freed

@end table

Since 1.0

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
