
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function clutter-box-new  (manager@tie{}@code{<clutter-layout-manager>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<clutter-actor>})
@samp{clutter_box_new} has been deprecated since version 1.10 and should
not be used in newly-written code. Use @code{clutter-actor-new} instead.

Creates a new @code{<clutter-box>}. The children of the box will be
layed out by the passed @var{manager}

@table @var
@item manager
a @code{<clutter-layout-manager>}

@item ret
the newly created @code{<clutter-box>} actor

@end table

Since 1.2

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-box-set-layout-manager  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-box>}) (manager@tie{}@code{<clutter-layout-manager>})
@deffnx Method set-layout-manager
@samp{clutter_box_set_layout_manager} has been deprecated since version
1.10 and should not be used in newly-written code. Use
@code{clutter-actor-set-layout-manager} instead.

Sets the @code{<clutter-layout-manager>} for @var{box}

A @code{<clutter-layout-manager>} is a delegate object that controls the
layout of the children of @var{box}

@table @var
@item box
a @code{<clutter-box>}

@item manager
a @code{<clutter-layout-manager>}

@end table

Since 1.2

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-box-get-layout-manager  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<clutter-layout-manager>})
@deffnx Method get-layout-manager
@samp{clutter_box_get_layout_manager} has been deprecated since version
1.10 and should not be used in newly-written code. Use
@code{clutter-actor-get-layout-manager} instead.

Retrieves the @code{<clutter-layout-manager>} instance used by @var{box}

@table @var
@item box
a @code{<clutter-box>}

@item ret
a @code{<clutter-layout-manager>}. The returned
@code{<clutter-layout-manager>} is owned by the @code{<clutter-box>} and
it should not be unreferenced.

@end table

Since 1.2

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-box-set-color  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-box>}) (color@tie{}@code{<clutter-color>})
@deffnx Method set-color
@samp{clutter_box_set_color} has been deprecated since version 1.10 and
should not be used in newly-written code. Use
@code{clutter-actor-set-background-color} instead.

Sets (or unsets) the background color for @var{box}

@table @var
@item box
a @code{<clutter-box>}

@item color
the background color, or @samp{@code{#f}} to unset.

@end table

Since 1.2

@end deffn

@deffn Function clutter-box-get-color  (self@tie{}@code{<clutter-box>}) (color@tie{}@code{<clutter-color>})
@deffnx Method get-color
@samp{clutter_box_get_color} has been deprecated since version 1.10 and
should not be used in newly-written code. Use
@code{clutter-actor-get-background-color} instead.

Retrieves the background color of @var{box}

If the @code{<"color-set">} property is set to @samp{@code{#f}} the
returned @code{<clutter-color>} is undefined

@table @var
@item box
a @code{<clutter-box>}

@item color
return location for a @code{<clutter-color>}.

@end table

Since 1.2

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
