
@c %start of fragment

@node ClutterBehaviour
@chapter ClutterBehaviour
Class for providing behaviours to actors

@section Overview
@code{<clutter-behaviour>} is the base class for implementing
behaviours. A behaviour is a controller object for
@code{<clutter-actor>}s; you can use a behaviour to control one or more
properties of an actor (such as its opacity, or its position). A
@code{<clutter-behaviour>} is driven by an "alpha function" stored
inside a @code{<clutter-alpha>} object; an alpha function is a function
depending solely on time. The alpha function computes a value which is
then applied to the properties of the actors driven by a behaviour.

Clutter provides some pre-defined behaviours, like
@code{<clutter-behaviour-path>}, which controls the position of a set of
actors making them "walk" along a set of nodes;
@code{<clutter-behaviour-opacity>}, which controls the opacity of a set
of actors; @code{<clutter-behaviour-scale>}, which controls the width
and height of a set of actors.

To visualize the effects of different alpha functions on a
@code{<clutter-behaviour>} implementation it is possible to take the
@code{<clutter-behaviour-path>} as an example:

(The missing figure, behaviour-path-alpha

@c (title "Effects of alpha functions on a path")
The actors position between the path's end points directly correlates to
the @code{<clutter-alpha>}'s current alpha value driving the behaviour.
With the @code{<clutter-alpha>}'s function set to a linear ramp the
actor will follow the path at a constant velocity, but when changing to
a sine wave the actor initially accelerates before quickly decelerating.

In order to implement a new behaviour you should subclass
@code{<clutter-behaviour>} and override the "alpha_notify" virtual
function; inside the overridden function you should obtain the alpha
value from the @code{<clutter-alpha>} instance bound to the behaviour
and apply it to the desiderd property (or properties) of every actor
controlled by the behaviour.

@code{<clutter-behaviour>} is available since Clutter 0.2.

@section Usage
@include defuns-clutter-behaviour.xml.texi

@c %end of fragment
